Usage Console App (#4180)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/console/usage-bundle/overview.md

---
weight: 10
title: Usage overview
layout: redirect
sector:
  - platform_administration
---

> The **Usage Overview** page provides a dashboard with all usage statistics relating to your environments and tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Usage overview** page provides a dashboard with all usage statistics relating to your environments and tenants.
```

Reviewer: See above. Should be fixed in the localization.

> The **Overview** page gives you a dashboard where you can dive into all the usage statistics relating to your environments and tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Overview** page provides a dashboard with all usage statistics relating to your environments and tenants.
```

<img src="/images/console/usage/overview/overview.png" alt="Usage Overview">

> At the top of the page, you will find two filters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of the page, you find two filters:
```

> * **Environment Filter** - allows you to select which environment you want to view data from. You do not need to be on the environment to view data from it. For example, if you have a production environment and a development environment, you can view the data from the development environment even if you are logged in and viewing the Console application from the production environment. You can also dive into the individual tenant data, in case you want to identify high-usage tenants. In the following screenshot, you can see the filter showing three environments, with a tenant called ‘subtenant-prod’ being selected from the ‘Production’ environment. As a reminder, you can name each environment in the Environments page of the Console application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Environment filter** - Allows you to select from which environment you want to view data. You do not need to be in the environment to view data from it. For example, if you have a production environment and a development environment, you can view the data from the development environment even if you are logged in and viewing the Console application from the production environment. You can also dive into the individual tenant data, in case you want to identify high-usage tenants. In the following screenshot, you can see the filter showing three environments, with a tenant called "subtenant-prod" being selected from the production environment. As a reminder, you can name each environment in the **Environments** page of the Console application.
```

> <img src="/images/console/usage/overview/environments-filter.png" alt="Environments Filter">

Reviewer: This image seems to be too large.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/4180/commits/d66dc3224e6a39b1b32493cdde4d6a4b3d5e26cd

> * **Date Filter** - allows you to select the time range you want to view in the graphs below. The default range is **Last 1 Year**, but can be adjusted to whatever months are desired. As a reminder, only previous month data is available in the Console application.

Reviewer 2: I think using the word 'previous month' could be a little ambiguous as it may be unclear whether it refers to the immediately preceding month. What about using  something like  `only data for completed months is available in the Console application` ?

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/4180/commits/910c9d96a196a19940d8ff810cc20a82632e5647

> * **Date Filter** - allows you to select the time range you want to view in the graphs below. The default range is **Last 1 Year**, but can be adjusted to whatever months are desired. As a reminder, only previous month data is available in the Console application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Date filter** - Allows you to select the time range you want to view in the graphs below. The default range is "Last 1 Year", but can be adjusted to whatever months are desired. As a reminder, only the previous month's data is available in the Console application.
```

> <img src="/images/console/usage/overview/date-filter.png" alt="Date Filter">

Reviewer: This image also seems to be too large.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/4180/commits/d66dc3224e6a39b1b32493cdde4d6a4b3d5e26cd

The first usage widget is the **Last Month Statistics**, and only ever shows the data for the last available month in the selected time range. The time range can be viewed in the top right corner of each tile.
<img src="/images/console/usage/overview/last-month-statistics.png" alt="Last Month Statistics">

> The following tiles are included:

Reviewer: Please adapt the capitalization as described above.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/4180/commits/e06b7434408f6ec68f6fbc90080bd2703f1c8ee1

> * **Environments and Tenants** - Displays the number of environments and total tenants, including the type of environment *(public cloud versus dedicated cloud)* and if they are active or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Environments and tenants** - Displays the number of environments and total tenants, including the type of environment *(public cloud versus dedicated cloud)* and if they are active or not.
```

* **Storage** - Displays the latest total Operational Data Store metric from the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric.

> * **Messages** - Displays the latest total Messages metric from the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric. The full calculation of Messages can be found in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} License Metrics documentation.

Reviewer: Add a link to the License Metrics documentation?

> * **Messages** - Displays the latest total Messages metric from the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric. The full calculation of Messages can be found in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} License Metrics documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Messages** - Displays the latest total messages metric from the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric. The full calculation of messages can be found in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} License metrics documentation.
```

* **Devices** - Displays the latest total number of devices from the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric.
* **CPU(S)** - Displays the latest total amount of CPU power used for microservices in the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric.

> * **Memory** - Displays the latest total amount of Memory used for microservices in the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Memory** - Displays the latest total amount of memory used for microservices in the last month. All tenants across all environments are aggregated in this metric.
```

> Note that each tile includes a percent changed indicator. This takes the first month of the selected time range and calculates the percentage difference between that and the last month, which the tiles display the data from.

Reviewer 2: would it be clearer if we say `calculates the percentage difference against the last month` instead of saying ` between that and the last month` ?

Author: Rephrased the sentence to "Note that each tile include a percentage change indicator. This represents the percentage difference between the first month of your selected time range and the final month displayed on the tile."

Addressed in https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/4180/commits/bfa798fe14b58640d71eab9ba242822d9ee8cf56

> The next widget is the **Messages** graph, which displays the total number of Messages across the selected time range.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next widget is the **Messages** graph, which displays the total number of messages across the selected time range.
```

<img src="/images/console/usage/overview/messages.png" alt="Messages">

> You can toggle the **Show breakdown** to display all components of the Messages metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can toggle the **Show breakdown** to display all components of the messages metric.
```

<img src="/images/console/usage/overview/messages-breakdown.png" alt="Messages Breakdown">

> The next widget is the **Operational Data Store (ODS)** graph, which displays the total aggregated storage use across all the selected environments and tenants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next widget is the **Operational Data Store (ODS)** graph, which displays the total aggregated storage used across all the selected environments and tenants.
```

<img src="/images/console/usage/overview/operational-data-store.png" alt="Operational Data Store">

The last widget on the page is the **Add-ons** graph, which allows you to select one of the add-ons and view the usage data from it.
<img src="/images/console/usage/overview/addons.png" alt="Add-ons">

> You can use the selector in the top right corner to select one of the add-ons that are deployed on your environments. Each add-on has its own usage metrics that are then displayed in the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the selector at the top right to select one of the add-ons that are deployed on your environments. Each add-on has its own usage metrics that are then displayed in the graph.
```
